the father of a Palestinian child shot
dead by Israeli forces in occupied East
Jerusalem says Israel is imposing
restrictions on receiving his body
13-year-old Ramy alh Huli was shot in
the chess while playing with fireworks
near the shat refugee camp checkpoint on
Wednesday let's bring in Laura Khan in
occupied East Jerusalem for more on this
Laura what are these restrictions and
why is Israel imposing
them
well as you said 13-year-old Ramy alhur
shot in the chest and he eventually died
in a hospital uh the Israelis took his
body um to an Israeli Hospital in
occupied East Jerusalem and then the
Israeli military took his body now his
father has released a statement to many
Palestinian media to say that they have
promised to give his body back on Friday
midnight but with some major caveats the
first is that only four members of the
family can go and collect the body then
he'd have to be buried inside schwat
refugee camp now schwat refugee camp is
the other side of the Israeli separation
wall um it's part of occupied East
Jerusalem but he's from this side of the
wall and his family burial site is also
on this side so of course they would
want to have him buried here they also
said only 50 members of uh the family
and friends are allowed to attend the
funeral usually in these kind of refugee
camps you see hundreds perhaps thousands
and especially with such a young kid
shot um while he was essentially and
according to eyewitness accounts and
also corroborated by video that we've
seen shooting fireworks up in the air
during Ramadan the Israelis of course
have contradicted this say he shot them
towards them and this immediately
endangered them hence why they shot and
killed him now put this into context for
us Laura what is the Israeli policy on
withholding bodies
well there was a resolution passed in
2017 uh to say that they can withhold
bodies they can keep them and they can
only return them with major caveats and
that's up to security officials to
decide what they are but they did say
that Hamas or groups similar to them
fighting groups against um Israel can be
kept and withhold forever now B Salem
which is an Israeli Rights group say
they often used as bargaining chips
during any future negotiations and
Palestinian prisoner rights groups say
around
245 um dead Palestinians are being held
by the Israelis at the moment but this
is a policy and a practice that's been
going on for many decades and we know
that many hundreds of Palestinians
bodies have been held um the most recent
um one man he was supposed to be
released in September his body has been
held out since July the Israeli promised
to give his body back um he was involved
in a shooting where one Israeli soldier
was injured but they still haven't
returned it so there is a possibility
that has given some sense of false hope
and certainly an underlying feeling for
so many Palestinians waiting for these
bodies to be returned there's going to
be false hope for him actually being
returned on Friday
evening Laura thank you very much for
that Laura can live there in occupied e
Jerusalem